Basically,XAMPP is a software application/open sourrce platform that helps developers 
to test their application.

XAMPP which helps developers to create and test their programs on a local webserver.
It was developed by the Apache Friends.
It consists of Apache HTTP Server, MariaDB/MySQL, and interpreter for the different programming languages like PHP and Perl.

XAMPP is an abbreviation where 
                 X stands for Cross-Platform/multiplatform,
                 A stands for Apache, 
                 M stands for MYSQL, 
                 and the Ps stand for PHP and Perl, respectively.

WHY XAMPP NEED
   => XAMPP helps a local host or server to test its website and clients via computers and
      laptops before releasing it to the main server. 

   => It is a platform that furnishes a suitable environment to test and verify the working
       of projects based on Apache, Perl, MySQL database, and PHP through the system of the host itself.

   => Perl is a programming language used for web development,

   => PHP is a backend scripting language, 

   => MariaDB is the most vividly used database developed by MySQL.

   => It provides a base for testing of projects based on different 
      technologies through a personal server.
      
   => XAMPP is an abbreviated form of each alphabet representing each of 
      its major components. 
   => This collection of software contains a web server named Apache,
      a database management system named MariaDB and scripting/ programming languages 
      such as PHP and Perl. 
   => X denotes Cross-platform, which means that it can work on different platforms such as Windows, Linux, and macOS.


Any other components are also part of this collection of software and are explained below.

Cross-Platform: Different local systems have different configurations of operating systems installed in it. The component of cross-platform has been included to increase the utility and audience for this package of Apache distributions. It supports various platforms such as packages of Windows, Linus, and MAC OS.
Apache: It is an HTTP a cross-platform web server. It is used worldwide for delivering web content. The server application has made free for installation and used for the community of developers under the aegis of Apache Software Foundation. The remote server of Apache delivers the requested files, images, and other documents to the user.
MariaDB: Originally, MySQL DBMS was a part of XAMPP, but now it has been replaced by MariaDB. It is one of the most widely used relational DBMS, developed by MySQL. It offers online services of data storage, manipulation, retrieval, arrangement, and deletion.
PHP: It is the backend scripting language primarily used for web development. PHP allows users to create dynamic websites and applications. It can be installed on every platform and supports a variety of database management systems. It was implemented using C language. PHP stands for Hypertext Processor. It is said to be derived from Personal Home Page tools, which explains its simplicity and functionality.
Perl: It is a combination of two high-level dynamic languages, namely Perl 5 and Perl 6. Perl can be applied for finding solutions for problems based on system administration, web development, and networking. Perl allows its users to program dynamic web applications. It is very flexible and robust.
phpMyAdmin: It is a tool used for dealing with MariaDB. Its version 4.0.4 is currently being used in XAMPP. Administration of DBMS is its main role.
OpenSSL: It is the open-source implementation of the Secure Socket Layer Protocol and Transport Layer Protocol. Presently version 0.9.8 is a part of XAMPP.
XAMPP Control Panel: It is a panel that helps to operate and regulate upon other components of the XAMPP. Version 3.2.1 is the most recent update. A detailed description of the control panel will be done in the next section of the tutorial.
Webalizer: It is a Web Analytics software solution used for User logs and provide details about the usage.
Mercury: It is a mail transport system, and its latest version is 4.62. It is a mail server, which helps to manage the mails across the web.
Tomcat: Version 7.0.42 is currently being used in XAMPP. It is a servlet based on JAVA to provide JAVA functionalities.
Filezilla: It is a File Transfer Protocol Server, which supports and eases the transfer operations performed on files. Its recently updated version is 0.9.41.













 





